Assignment: Product Mindset

SMARTO APP, online solutions to schools and colleges for LMS, video conferencing, and chatrooms. students from schools, colleges, universities, working professionals every other person who wishes to learn and grow.

Smarto is honored to launch its new web app using which learners from all categories can access, create and share virtual whiteboards from their schools, colleges, and universities onto their laptops and mobile screens. We at Smato believe that learning should be accessible to all, be it from different age groups, localities, or social strata. due to pandemic situations all over the globe, everyone suffered but students and learners suffered the most. also having a virtual whiteboard is not something affordable for everyone, to solve this problem we at Smarto building an app using which everyone can access the virtual whiteboard from their educational institutions directly on their mobiles, and laptops browser. making distant/online education infrastructure affordable for everyone By visiting our app learners can easily stream screens of the virtual whiteboard, no need to invest in a personal whiteboard, only just need to visit our app from their respective browsers from phones, tablets, laptops, etc no browser restriction, compatible with all browsers and versions.a fully responsive web application, integrated with Braille for specially-abled learners. Develop a passion for learning. If you do, you will never cease to grow. : says Tom Evens CEO Smarto with this web app we attempting to bridge the gap between learners and quality education. Log into our web application today, and get a free trial for the first month. and then $8.99 from the second month. Smarto allowed me to access my classes from home and did not let me stay behind during this pandemic time.

FAQs:

1. How can I start using Smarto app? Open any web browser from your device (mobile, tab, laptop, desktop) and visit Smarto application.
2. Do I have to pay upfront for first-time usage? No, for the first-month services are free. after that, you will be charged a small amount of 7.99$ / month.

3.Is there any language barrier while using the app? No, You can select your native language, the app is available in multiple languages.

4.How will blind people be able to use Smarto Web Application? We have provided the option of screen readers, braille displays, and speech recognition software to make it accessible.

Internal FAQs

1. What will customers like most about Smarto Web Application? Its Economical Nature and the value it adds to their career.

2. How do we compare to our competitors? We have taken care of blind users and added features for their convenience. That gives us the edge over our competitors.
